# crop_classification

A machine learning approach to crop classification in Illinois

## Setup

1. Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
1. Run `python download_data.py` to download and extract data files to the `/data` directory.

## Files

`classify_crops.ipynb` - This is the notebook I used to work through this problem. It includes all the code used to train the model and predict the test data as well as explinations for why I did certain things. Reading through this file would be the best way to understand my thought process.

`model.py` - This file includes the final version of the hypermodel as well as the hyperparameter tuner.

`learn.py` - This is a script that can be used to train the model with the training data. It mostly mirrors what is in the notebook but without the data checks and explinations.

`predict.py` - This is a script that can be used to predict the test data using the trained model. Like `learn.py`, it also mirrors the notebook.

`Configuration.py` - This file contains the configuration that is used by the `model.py`, `learn.py` and `predict.py` files. The notebook does not use these settings.

`DataSet.py` - An abstract class that defines a few functions for handling data sets.

`Imagery.py` - An implementation of `DataSet` that can be used to load and modify imagery data.

`Labels.py` - An implementation of `DataSet` that can be used to load and modify label data and label data meta information.

`download_data.py` - A script to download the data for this exercise.

`requirements.txt` - A list of requirements for this repository. These are the packages I installed by running `pip install` in a virtual env.

`requirements-full.txt` - A full list of packages installed in the virtual env where I am running thos project. It was generated by running `pip freeze -l > requirements-full.txt`.
